1. Overview
Working Memory refers to our brain's capability of memorizing and processing perceived signals, which plays a vital role in language learning (particularly in Second/Foreign Language Learning). This is because our brains has to memorize perceived utterances and try to extract linguistic rules from them. For instance, when learners of English perceive the utterance "Tom tells Jimmy that he only slept for four hours", they would store this utterance in their (short-term) memory, and learn the reference of "he" (in this case, it is preferably "Tom").

Working Memory capacity varies across individuals, which helps shape a different developmental progress. In this test, you could measure your own Working Memory capacity and understand part of your cognitive abilities. In addition, you could measure this capacity for every 30 days, and ENIGMA would record the results of the most recent 7 test results for you, so you could track the variation in your Working Memory capacity at different ages. When you participate in this Working Memory test, you also agree to share the results of your "most recent" Working Memory test to the experimenters of the challenges that you have completed, so they could further analyze the influences of Working Memory on language learning. As usual, your Working Memory measures will be "delinked" before they are shared with the experimenters, who thus cannot map the measures to your account, or even identity.

2. Procedure
The Working Memory test goes as follows. After the test begins, you will see randomly generated mathematical formulae and their results one by one (such as "2 + 5 = 7" and "9 x 2 = 15"), and you have "5 seconds" to judge if the result is correct for a formula. If you are using a desktop/laptop computer, you can press A or L on your keyboard to respond (A = Correct, L = Incorrect). If you are using a mobile device, you can simply tap the "Correct" or "Incorrect" button at the bottom of your screen. If you do not respond in "5 seconds", the test will proceed to the next formula automatically. As you try to make your judgment, you also need to memorize the correct/incorrect result of each formula.

After you make your judgment on a group of formulae and their results, you will be asked to recall the result numbers from the group of formulae you have just seen within a given amount of time. You will see a group of numbers on your screen, and you have to "follow the correct order" and click/tap the result numbers. For example, assuming that you first see "2 + 5 = 7", and then "9 x 2 = 15", you will have to first click/tap "7" and then "15" on your screen. If you could not complete your choices within the time limit, the test will proceed automatically to the next group of formulae, and those remained choices will be counted as "incorrect" choices. As the number of results you have to memorize in each group increases gradually, the time limit will also be lengthened gradually to give you enough time to think carefully and recall the numbers from your memory. 

At the very beginning of the test, each group only contains two formulae, and the number will increase gradually as the test proceeds, so will the difficulty of the test. The test includes a total of "105 formulae", and it takes about 30 minutes (or less) to complete. The measure of your Working Memory capacity is the sum of the number of correctly judged formulae and the number of correctly recalled result numbers, and the full marks are 210 points. If you fail to judge or recall 50% of test items correctly in three groups in a row, it means you have reached the limit of your Working Memory capacity, and the test will terminate before it reaches the end.

3. Your right as a Challenger
If you wish to end the test halfway through, you can simply close the browser tab or click/tab the "End Test" button in the top-left corner. ENIGMA will not store any data if you terminate the test session. It is  possible for you to review your performance in Working Memory test and compare your Working Memory performance to that of other challengers in ENIGMA on the "History" page of your Working Memory dashboard.

4. Are you ready?
If you are ready, please click on/tap the "Start Working Memory Test" button to begin the test.