There are 7,000+ languages in the world, but many are dying.
There are 7,000+ languages in the world, but 1,000 of them are detailed.
In cross-gender interactions, almost all the interuptions are from males. 
Although the offical language in Haiti is French, most Haitians can only speak Haitian Creole. 
Tarahumara from northern Mexico has no separate words for "blue" and "green".
Korean babies can still distinguish "r"and "l" sound before one year old. 
A pidgin is a language which has no native speakers.
To British ears, a New Zealander's "bad" sounds like an English person's "bed". 
People in their 20s and over 70s tend to use more vernacular form than those in their 40s. 
One single verb in Amuesha is so rich in information that it can be translated to a whole sentence. 
Bilblical Hebrew does not have the color "blue". 
The word "blue" in modern European languages comes from word that originally meant "black" or "green."
When French speakers see the picture of a fork, most of them wanted her to speak in a woman's voice. 
Patients with Wernicke's aphasia can produce grammatically fluent sentences, but they are often semantically nonsensical.
Patients with Broca's aphasia cannot produce grammatically fluent sentences.
The Niger-Congo language family comprises more than one-fifth of the world's languages (about 1,500 languages).
The Great Vowel Shift between 1400 and 1600 is responsible for many pronunciation-spelling inconsistencies in Modern English.
Icelandic has altered very little since the 13th century.
In Tahitian, "sadness" and "sickness" is the same word.
Only 10% of deaf children grow up with fluent signing parents.
Average infants would start trying to communicate with others between 8 and 10 months of age.
In new-borns' brains, there are no regions that are specifically responsible for language processing.
The same brain regions are operating when using sign language as well as spoken language.
The left hemiphere does most of the work processing language.
Among the approximately 400 languages of Melanesia, passive constructions are very rare.
90% of the world's languages places verbs next to objects in sentences.
Yagua, a Peruvian indigenous language, has 5 types of past tense depending on how long ago the said event took place.
Yimas, spoken in New Guinea, only has 3 adjectives: "big",  "good", and "another".
96% of the world's languages have subjects before objects in sentences.
Port Sandwich, spoken in Vanuatu, was named after the location by missionaries for it does not have an indigenous name.
In Tongan, for each social class, there is a separate set of vocabulary that is used.
In South Africa, Nguni women cannot use words that contain syllables occurring in her husband's family's name.
Over 2,000 languages are spoken in Africa, and each language has its own dialects and varieties.
In 1900, over 90% of Maori children's first language is Maori; in 1960, the number dropped to 26%.
Kilivila of the Trobiand Islands has a variety called Biga Baloma, which is used to talk to the spirits of the dead.
Over 100,000 words of Modern Hebrew were created in the revitalization movement in the late 19th century.
96% of the world's languages are spoken by just 4% of the population.
"Wiki" of Wikipedia came from Hawaiian, which means "quick".
The death and emigration caused by the Great Irish Famine lead to severe fall in the number of Irish speakers.
Klingon from Star Trek was created mainly based on Southeast Asian and American native languages.
Even when bilinguals are communicating in one langauge, both languages in their brain are activated.
The process of children's acquisition of sign language and spoken language is very similar.
Adults of Kaluli of Papua New Guinea rarely engage children in conversation.
Children of high socio-economic status acquire language faster than those of low socio-economic status.
Girls acquire langauge slightly faster than boys in early child language acquisition.
After the Reform and Opening Up policy, the Chinese have been using the formal "you" more frequently.
Swedish does not have a word for "wipe".
Dyirbal, an Australian indigenous language, has 3 different verbs for eating fish, meat, and vegetables.
Children will accept the statement "some giraffes have longer necks than humans" as true.
People tend to re-use the sentence structure that they have just heard to produce new speech.
In early child language acquisition, face-to-face communication with adults is very important.
The two last speakers of Ayapaneco, an Mexican indigenous language, refused to speak to each other.
Females use more filler words in speech.
Dani, spoken in New Guinea, only has 2 color words– dark and light.
Intermarriage between groups can accelerate language change.
The American aboriginal language Zuni does not distinguish between the color orange and yellow.
In Spanish, the inside of a corner and the outside of a corner are two seperate words.
Munduruku of the Amazon only has 4 words for direction– upstream, downstream, sunrise, and sunset.
Munduruku of the Amazon has no word for geometric shapes, except for circle.
In Thai, there are different words for "you" according to 7 grades of formality.
In Navajo, there are different words for "move" according to how many people are moving.
In Russian, there are seperate words for "light blue" and "dark blue", but no words for "blue".
Herero, spoken in Namibia, has the same word for both blue and green.
The language we use influence the way we percieve the world.
Pirahã, spoken in the Amazon, has no words for numbers.
Guugu Yimithirr, an Australian indigenous language, only descibes location with north, south, west, and east. 
Stnapon, spoken in Papua New Guinea, has no words for clothing.
Tzeltal, an indigenous language in Mexico, only descibes location with uphill, downhill, and across. 
Maybrat, spoken in New Guinea, does not have any tense.
Nasioi, spoken in Papua New Guinea, has 200 types of noun genders.
Shilha, spoken in northern Africa, has no words for "win" or "lose".
Children are more likely to be bilingual if their parents realize their own language behavior has an impact.
Bilinguals have better attention control than monolinguals.
The more language children hear, the quicker they will develop langauge.
Bilinguals are worse than monolinguals at retrieving words from brain.
Parents seldom correct theor children's grammatical errors.
Langauge acquisition ability has no absolute relation with IQ.
To learn new vocabulary from reading, the reader needs to know more than 90% of the words in the text.
People with autism have difficulty interpreting fegurative language, such as irony and metaphor.
Klingon from Star Trek has the most speakers than any other invented languages.
At least 60% of the Amazonian indigenous languages have become extinct since the European Invasion.
English words such as hurricane and barbecue comes from the southern american Arawak languages.
In Cayuvava, spoken in Bolivia, a person of low social class will adress those of high rank nasalizing all vowels.
Hipibo, spoken in the Amazon, categorizes animals into two types– those that bites and those that are edible.
Machiguenga, spoken in the Amazon, porcupines have their own classifier which means "covered in spines".
When a restaurant uses longer words to describe a dish, it charges more for the dish.
The word ketchup in English comes from Hokkien, which originally meant "preserved-fish sauce".
When writing negative reviews, people tend to use "we" instead of "I" to describe the experience.
Yorkshire's traditional dialect is similar to Danish, proving that the Norse ruled the area in the 9th century.
The Celtic languages spread over western Europe B.C. but now they survive only in the British Isles and Brittany.
The airing of Australian soap opera in Britain influenced the British English, such as sentence final rising pitch.
In Dinka, spoken in Sudan, all plural forms of nouns are irregular.
In English, time is a distance; in Spanish, time is an amount.
In Navajo, all verbs are irregular.
Pirahã, spoken in the Amazon, has only ten sounds.
Language don't evolves according to the needs of their speakers, except for vocabulary.
In New Guinea, it's common for a language to have one word for both "eat" and "drink".
Most words in Albanian originally came from other langauges.
In German, there are at least seven different ways of forming plural nouns. 
In Arabics, both tense and person are contained within the verb itself. 
In English, when a vowel occurs in a syllable closed by a fortis consonant, the vowel becomes shorter in duration.
Language innatists believes that children are equipped with a set of language blueprints appliable to all languages.
Though sentences are strings of words, yet the underlying structures are not linear, but are tree-like structures.
Latin lacks the words for "grey" and "brown".
Shona, spoken in Africa, use one word for yellower green and greener yellow, and a different one for bluer green and non purplish blue.
If a language only has three words for colors, they will be black, white, and red.
If a language only has five words for colors, they will be black, white, red, yellow, and green.
Inukitut does not have more words for snow than English does.
A sentence can be absolute grammatical while making absolutely no sense.
In Turkish, the same verb can have up to 2 million forms.
In Warlpiri, an Australian indigenous language, words can be arranged in different orders and the meaning will be unchanged.
Less than 1% of the world's languages have the word order of Object-Subject-Verb.
If the word order of a language is Subject-Object-Verb, it will usually have question words at the end of the sentence.
If the word order of a language is Subject-Verb-Object, it will usually have question words at the beginning of the sentence.
If a language has nasal vowels, it will have non-nasal vowels.
If a language has a word for "purple", it will have a word for "red".
If a language has a word for "leg", it will have a word for "arm".
80 % of the 150 indigenous languages in North America are on the edge of extinction.
In 98% of the cases where brain damage leads to language problems, the damage is near the Sylvian fissure of the left hemisphere.
If the connection between Wernicke's area and Broca's area in the brain is damaged, the patients cannot repeat sentences they hear.
Patients with Pure Word Deafness can hear, read, and speak normally, but they cannot recognize spoken language.
Patients with anomia cannot correctly name an object.
The combined amount of the vocbulary of bilingual children's two languages roughly equals the vocabulary of monolingual children.
The area of the most language diversity is usually the orgin place of the language.
More than half of the world's languages have fewer than 10,000 speakers.
More than a quarter of the world's languages have fewer than 1,000 speakers.
Vanuatu has the highest langauge density in the world, with 120 languages among its 100,000 population.
Papua New Guinea has 820 languages on a single island.
Only about one-third of the world's langaues have a form of writing system.
Most languages' writing systems are borrowed from other languages.
In Mandarin Chinese, there are 3,036 possible syllables, but only 1,620 are actually being used.
Before the 20th century, loan words into Hindi mostly came from Arabic and Persian; now they mostly come from Sanskrit.
The top four languages with the most population in the world are English, Hindi, Chinese, Spanish, and Russian.
Modern Spanish evolved from Castilian which were spoken in the central region of the Iberian Peninsula.
Among the Slavic languages, Russian has the most population, and is used in the farthest east, 
The national anthem of India is actually written in Bengali.
The dialects of Arabic are not in general mutually intelligible.
Scholarly works in Arabic were translated to Latin from the 11th to 13th century and thus deeply influenced the languages of western Europe.
Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama saw coco pods as monstrous faces when discovering them; thus the word "coco" is actually an onomatopoeia for a monster.
French is an official language in 21 African states.
René Descartes is the first European scholar to have a major work published in a vernacular language (French).
In German, the verb comes second in a main clause.
Basque does not have any known relative language.
Italian is closer to the orginal Latin as opposed to other Latin languages.
Though Turkish has 8 to 10 dialects, the modern standard Turkish is based on the Istanbul dialect.
99% of Japanese speakers live in Japan.
The modern standard Polish combines the features of several dialects.
In the past, Ukranian is often referred to as Little Russian.
Th west of Romania is occupied by Slavs and thus, Romanian's connection with other Romance langauges was cut off and it developed along different lines.
In the late 17th century, Dutch was taken by settlers to South Africa, and developed into the modern Afrikaans.
Bulgarian is derived from Old Church Slavonic, which is still used in the Russian Orthodox Church today.
Historically, Danish has about 20 dialects, but most have disappeared nowadays.
Since Norway was under Danish rule for a long period, one of the two official Norwegian, Bokmål, was developed from Danish.
Though Norway has two official languages, Bokmål and Nynorsk, 85% of the population use the first as their primary spoken language. 
The only two sirviving members of the Baltic branch of the Indo-European languages are Lithuanian and Latvian.
Yiddish is basically a Germanic language, but its vocabulary has been influenced by Hebrew, Polish, and other Slavic languages.
It was not until 1944 that Macedonian was officially recognized as a distinct language instead of a Bulgarian dialect.
Hausa is the most widely used langauge in West Africa.
The name of the country Burkina Faso is composed of the Moore word "burkina", meaning "men of integrity", and the Dioula word "faso", meaning "country".
The English word "cola" originated from the African language Temne, for it was involved heavily in the trade of kolanuts.
Baule, spoken in Ivory Coast, literarally means "the child is dead", which refers to how their queen left behind her child to save her people.
Ga, spoken in Ghana, distinguishes between three degree of vowel length: short, long, and extra long.
Most languages in the world do not distinguish more than two degree of vowel length.
Nupe, spoken in Nigeria, has many verbal taboo on words denoting body parts; thus, many are substituted by Arabic words or euphemisms.
In Soninke, spoken in Mali, there are differnt words for "foot" in relation to that of a prophet or of a common person.
Ideophone refers to a word whose sound imitates properties of its referent.
Malagasy belongs to the Austronesian language family, and it is not related to the African languages spoken nearby.
In Malagasy, demonstratives are repeated both before and after the noun, such as "this book this".
In Rwanda, primary education is taught in Kinyarwanda, whereas secondary and higher education are taught in French.
In Luba, spoken in the Demoncratic Republic of Congo, tone not only can distinguish words but also sentence types, such as declarative and relative sentences.
Though Xhosa belongs to the Bantu language family of Niger-Congo languages, 15% of its vocabulary came from the Khosian languages nearby.
The Kirundi people in Burundi are historically a herding society; thus, the Kirundi word for greeting directly translated to "may you have herds of cattles".
Three-quarters of the population of South Asia speak an Indo-Aryan language as their native langauge.
Kannada, spoken in India, literally means "the land of black soil".
Newar was the official language of Nepal from the 15th century to the end of the 18th century; afterwards, it is replaced by Nepali.
Siraiki, spoken in Pakistan, is an Indo-Aryan language, but 60% of its vocabulary is Dravidian and Munda in origin.
In modern Indo-Aryan languages, Konkani is the earliest to have its own dictionaries and grammars written down.
The majority of Kazaks in Kazakhstan are proficient in Russian.
Hebrew is the only sirviving language of the Canaanite languages.
Hebrew was used as a written language only from the second century to the 19th century.
Hebrew was revived as a spoken language by Eliezer ben-Yehuda in the 19th century.
Min has diverged from the rest of Chinese for two millennia.
Southern Min is the most used language within Min.
The standard Hanoi dialect of Vietnamese has six tones.
Khmer has 9 short vowels, 10 long vowels, and 13 diphthongs.
Dong, spoken in southern China, has more than 10 distinct tones.
Austronesian languages spreaded into Papua New Guinea 4,000 years ago, but did not move out into the Pacific until 3,500 years ago.
Austronesian languages extends from Easter Island in the east, to Madagascar in the west, and to Taiwan in the north.
Bislama, spoken in Melanesia, has its name orginated from the French word for "sea slug".
Māori was recognized as an official language of New Zealand in 1987.
In Warlpiri, spoken in Australia, men refer to their sisters as "the other", and women refer to their brothers as "the sweaty".
In Warlpiri, spoken in Australia, men refer to their parents as "old man" amd "old woman".
In Mian, spoken in Papua New Guinea, tones in verbs can be used to distinguish tenses.
Murrinh-Patha is one of the few Australian indegious languages whose speakers are still increasing.
The longest official place name in Australia is a Pitjantjatjara word, "Mamungkukumpurangkuntjunya Hill", which means "where the devil urinates".
Pitjantjatjara, an Australian indigenous langauge, has very few basic words for numbers, only "one", "two", "three", and "many".
The counting system of Anejom̃, spoken in Vanuata, is quinary.
Arrernte, an Australian indigenous langauge, has a highly sophisticated sign language, which is used when speech is not appropriate.
Yolngu Matha is the language of the first full-length feature film made in an Australian indigenous language, "Ten Canoes".
Approximately 90% of the languages spoken in the Australian continent belong to the Pama-Nyungan family.
In 1990, 28% of school-age Navajo children on the reservation can only spoke English; in 2000, the number is 43%.
Fur trading with the French made Ojibwe the main trade language of the Great Lakes region in America from the mid-17th century to the late 19th century.
Mesoamerican languages have twentieth-based numeral systems.
Quechua, spoken in the Andean region, was originally the language of the coast around Lima, but was spread northwards through trading.
In Guaraní, spoken in Paraguay, in general, if a word contains a nasal sound, it cannot contain a non-nasal sound.
Guaraní, spoken in Paraguay, is the only indigenous language that has an official status and a domestic role equal to Spanish in Latin America.
Until the fusion between the Incas and the Chincha in the 14th century, Aymara, now mainly spoken in Bolivia, is the language of the Incas.
Aymara, spoken in Bolivia, is built on ternary logic, and distinguishes between indeterminate, determinate, and personal knowledge from hearsay.
Scientist Guzmán de Rojas suggested Aymara, spoken in Bolivia, to be the idea link language for computer translation for its ternary logic.
Dakota, a North American indigenous language, uses sentence-final particles to mark the force of what has been said, such as assertion and command. 
The word "Cherokee" is unpronounceable in Cherokee, a North American indigenous language, and has been adopted as "Tsalagi". 
In O'odham, a North American indigenous language, the plural forms of noun are usually formed with a re-duplicated infix.
In Blackfoot, a North American indigenous language, a common insult is "your lice have a very bad death-dirty taste".
In Keres, a North American indigenous language, when referring to owned animals, the word "pet" is obligatory.
Huave, an Mexican indigenous language, is an isolated language which has no other known relative languages.
Raramuri, an Mexican indigenous language, literally means "foot runner", which refers to how the people can travel long distances by foot.
Kickapoo, a North American indigenous language, was originally used in the Great Lakes, but most speakers reside in Mexico now after forced migration.
Kaingáng, spoken in Brazil, is the southernmost member of the Jê language family.
Choctaw, a North American indigenous language, was used as a mean of secret communication by the US military during both World Wars.
During the Chaco War (1928-1935), Bolivia used an indigenous language, Chiquitano, as a mean of secret communication.
One commonly used way to assess language vitality is to measure knowledge of a language in each generation.
Intergenerational transmission is considered to be the most significant factor in determining the future of a language.
The last native speaker of Manx died in 1974; afterwards, there are several attempts to revive the language.
In 1893, Irish was spoken by around 15% of the Irish population; now less than 5% use Irish on a daily bases.
In 1981, only 1.64% of the Scottish population above the age of three had knowledge of Scottish Gaelic.
Marocco has nine indigenous languages, five are endangered and two are nearly extinct.
70% of the Berber inhabitants in North Africa speak no Berber at all.
At least 60 languages in Central Africa are endangered or have fewer than 1,000 speakers.
Approximately 800 languages are spoken in Central Africa, representing three major language families: Afro-Asiatic, Niger-Congo, and Nilo-Saharan.
Of the 284 languages known to be spoke in Cameroon, there is no information available for 54 of them.
East Africa has around 70 indigenous languages, which are all endangered to varying degree.
There are 415 languages spoken in India alone.
The only one language spoken in the Caucasus that does not belong to the Caucasian language group is Tat.
Socialinguistic serveys have shown that speaking Ket, an language of Central Asia, is now so unusual to the point of being "unnatural" .
The Pacific region altogether has more than 1,300 languages (19% of the world total) and just 0.1% of the world population.
There are more than 600 languages used in Australia, but only 25 of them have more than 1,000 speakers.
The majority of the languages spoken in Australia have less than 100 speakers or are now extinct.
Nearly half of the hundred or so languages spoken in Vanuatu are endangered.
Although 19 of the 20 Alaskan languages are still spoken today, they are all endangered.
Only 30% of Navajo children know Navajo as their first language.
Brazil is home to 188 different living languages and 47 known extinct languages.
At least a third of the indigenous languages that were spoken at the time of European contact with America have disappeared.
Of the more than 300 indigenous languages currently spoken in North America, only 46 have significant number of children learning them.
Before European contact, there were about 1,200 indigenous groups in South America, representing at least 90 different linguistic stocks.
Inuit children in Canada still grow up speaking Inuit, while in Alaska it is endangered and in Russia close to extinction.
The now extinct Ubykh, used to be spoken in the Caucasus region, had 83 distinct consonants and only 2 vowels.
Many place names in the central highlands of Colombia came from Chibcha, which has been extinct since the mid-18th century.
Egyptian slowly died out since the advent of Arabic in the 17th century, and became extinct around the 14th century.
Roman numerals were derived from Etruscan, which was extinct since the end of the 1st century BCE.
Although related to modern Celtic tongues, Gaulish, which was extinct since the late 4th century, was more like Latin or Greek in the 1st century.
Hittite, which was extinct since the 13th century BCE, was the oldest known language in the Indo-European language family.
Yaghnobi, spoken by some 2,000 people in Tajikistan, is the only modern remnant of the now extinct Sogdian, the lingua franca of the SIlk Road.
Sumerian was spoken at least since the late 4th millennium BCE but by 1600 BCE it became purely a written langauge.